---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: 'freestyle skateboarding, grid.io test'
datePublished: '2015-11-29T19:37:42.570Z'
dateModified: '2015-11-29T19:37:06.102Z'
title: 'Board Control: Reverts and Rewinds '
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2015-11-29-board-control-reverts-and-rewinds.md
published: true
url: board-control-reverts-and-rewinds/index.html
_type: Article

---
For the duration of this post I will quickly define what each variant represents, or at the very least my opinionated interpretation of the basic differences.I will (try to) provide some tips that will help your understanding at an elemental level, so hopefully you can do them your self.**REWIND**A trick where the rider lands and pivots in the opposite direction of the initial spin of the deck. An example of this would be Stevie William's 'Haymaker' trick, fs 180 bs shove it. Another example of this would be the 'Chetty Thomas', found in Globe video 'Opinion', bs 180 hardflip.Please note, if you are screaming at the screen, the 'Chetty Thomas' and the original 'Ghetto Bird' by Kareem Cambell are two completely different things but have been skewed by a view of stances on a flat bank.**REVERT**A trick where a rider slides in the same direction as the initial rotation of the board, so this is a little bit trickier to quantify as it is up to personal preference and it hasn't been clamped down. Some people feel that a revert is the same as the rewind but the only difference is a sliding or pivot motion. For this example lets assume slide/pivot and same/opposite difference. So a quick example would be half cab flip revert, so essentially a full cab flip.**DIFFERENCES OF APPROACH**Despite a confusion or similar approach to the two tricks they feel completely different. Simply put the motion of the 'rewind' is gained through the shoulders while the motion of the 'revert' uses the elbows. To explain the feeling the 'rewind' is premeditated and prepared while a 'revert' feels more like a whip or a jerk. Momentum is carried through the upper body to the feet. As the shoulders have little control to make a commitment the moment after a flip the leading arm must provide the spin that is carried to your shoulders then the rest of the body.Below is a simple approach on how to move in the required directions some easy to remember solutions. For the sake of the examples the assumption is made that you feel in control of a flip trick and are consistent with the motions.**EXAMPLE OF IMPLEMENTATION****REWINDS**Like what was noted earlier a rewind is premeditated. Now imagine standing on a board and performing a trick, lets say a 360 flip. Try to imagine what direction your shouldersfaced. Traditionally to get a full 360 rotation your shoulders need to face the right, if you are regular, for the entire duration of the trick.The first stage to rewinds is landing the trick at up to a 90 degree angle opposite of the spin. To do this keep the same stance as before but face your shoulders forward. Simply put the rotation of any trick is directly effected by the direction of your shoulders, an example of this is the nollie 540 shove its where the rotation is slow but a rider catches them past the initial 360 rotation and pull it round all the way to 540.The next stage is to learn to catch on two wheels. To learn this stand stationary pop the 360 flip with the shoulders as described as above and lay the front foot over the front bolts of the board at a comfortable slanted angle. Do the trick but in the air rely on the front foot first to push down on the nose change the center of gravity so it is through this foot. Keep your back foot in the air by unweighting and relax. With a little practise landing on the nose in a stationary position should come easier and easier.To make the actual rolling rewind simply skate at a comfortable speed and execute the latter stage. As a natural consequence of the forward momentum the center of gravity will be in front of the board as well as that, for regular riders, the right shoulder carries the momentum into the spin. As a result the trick automatically lands in nose pivot and momentum carries the shoulder all the way to switch. Once the shoulder/board rotation relationship is cracked try to tweak the board closer to the original 360 rotation. It will look even better!**REVERTS**The entire motion is conducted outside of the central core of the body. The arms are used to carry momentum after a trick has been landed. Thankfully the motions are simpler as only two elements are required.1) Anticipation of the board location of the landing.2) Pre-winding on the initial trickThe first is gained through significant practice and repetition. Once confidence has been gained throw the arms in to the trick with more power, be careful not to over rotate the body to miss the landing. As a regular skater if the goal is to complete a fs rotation trick to regular for instance a nollie fs gazelle facing the shoulders forward just before the pre-wind and release helps. This way the shoulders carry 90 degrees to make the fs rotation from there the upper body can focus on getting the remaining 180 to regular. In this case it would be a blind side revert so the left elbow has to initially guide the spin to transfer the momentum to the shoulders then the rest of the body.A lot of individuals find that a clean revert takes pressure away from the initial trick. Complex motions need to be broken down before adding more complexity, learn the basics, with a solid foundation in muscle memory it is easier to gain the experience to potentially execute bat-shit crazyness!**CONCLUSION**So there are some relatively basic nuances of reverts and rewinds. These tricks are adaptations of the basics, understanding how the board rotates and how it relates to the upper body is key to how mastery is made.To finalise although reverts and rewinds do essentially the same thing in hindsight this is the difference.Rewinds - Carry motion through momentum that is already present, they are automatic and are guided through a leading shoulder but require a precise touch.Reverts - Require an external source of energy to carry the spin around whether it is to regular or switch, this is often coupled with a pre-wind motion for the arms to generate the required momentum when required.**LINKS:**Twisted Underflip Revert:[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O4P\_o1Jegz0][0]Some Revert and Rewind Work:[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VDJurhLgDJc][1]Kareem Cambell Original Ghetto Bird:[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SdzquuaNNcY][2]Jimmy Carlin Flippity Flop Pit Stop:[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cKSRB3nF1Bc][3]

[0]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O4P_o1Jegz0
[1]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VDJurhLgDJc
[2]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SdzquuaNNcY
[3]: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cKSRB3nF1Bc